One way that you might get a data set is
that somebody might actually write down
the numbers on a piece of paper and
mail to you.
But more likely in this
era of the internet,
you're probably going to be downloading
a lot of your data from the Internet.
So this lecture is about how do
you use r to download files?
And the reason why we want to use r to
download files as opposed to pointing and
clicking, is because then the downloading
process can be included in a processing
script, and so you get a more complete
picture of how the data were collected and
generated.
So the first thing to keep in mind is that
we need to know what directories we're
working in.
So if you took the Data Scientist Toolbox,
you learned a little bit about CD and
the current working directories, and
moving around within the directories.
So the two main commands when we're
dealing with directories in r are going to
be getwd, and setwd.
And so, getwd does exactly what you'd
expect, it gets the working directory.
It tells you what directory
you're currently in.
And setwd actually sets a different
working directory that you might want to
move to.
So one way that you can do that,
is you can actually use it move relative.
So for
example if you do setwd("../") like this,
what'll end up happening is
you'll move it up one directory.
So remember when we were talking about
directory structure, directory is
up if it's a super center, if it's above
the directory that you're currently in.
You can also use absolute paths.
So for example, you can type
setwd("/Users/jtleek/data/") and
what that'll do is that will move you
into that directory that you specified
there exactly.
So an important distinction in Windows
is that you have to use backslashes
rather than forward slashes.
So this is an example of the way that
a path might look in a Windows machine
as opposed to a Mac or Linux machine.
So if you need more help with that go
check out the Data Science Toolbox
lectures.
So one thing that we might want to do
before we collect a bit of data is
to create a directory for
that data to fall into.
So file.exists, is a function in r.
So if you are in a directory and
you type file.exists,
directoryName like this,
it will look within that directory and
see if there is a sub-directory
called directoryName.
And so
if it does exist it will return true, and
if it doesn't exist it will return false.
And so dir.create,
like this, will actually create
a directory if it doesn't exist.
So here's a little bit of code that checks
to see if there's a data directory.
So it says,
if the data sub-directory exists,
then this will return a true, and
so what will end up happening is this
will be false, and nothing will happen.
If the data directory doesn't exist,
this will return false, and
this exclamation point will negate it and
so that will be true.
And so then it will create
a directory called data.
So you'll be seeing a command a lot
like this throughout the lecture and
that's where you create a data
directory that doesn't already exist.
So the main way that we get data from
the internet if were talking about files,
is with the download.file function, and so
the download.file function downloads
the file from the internet.
You can do this by hand of course,
you can go to the website that you're
interested in and
click and press download.
But if you do it by using download.cloud,
it'll actually improve the reproducibility
if you've taken that class you'll
understand what I mean by that.
And if not it'll just,
you can imagine intuitively it's easier
to keep track of everything that
you've done if you've included the
download process as part of your script.
The important parameters are the URL,
so that's the, the place that you're
going to be getting the data from.
The destfile is the destination file
where that data is going to go, and
then the method.
So we'll talk a little bit about why
the method needs to be specified,
particularly when dealing with HTTPS.
So it's useful for
downloading tab to limited, CSV files,
Excel files, a whole bunch of other
different files from the internet.
So it's sort of agnostic to the file
type that you might be downloading.
So as an example, we're going to be
using the Baltimore fixed camera data.
So these are speed cameras that are set up
around Baltimore, which have unfortunately
caught your instructor more than once
speeding and being sent in a ticket.
And so you might want to be
able to download these data and
figure out where they are.
So if you go over here under
the Export button on this website,
you actually get a bunch of
different kinds of files.
And so for example, you might go down to
CSV which is one of these types of files
that you would see over here
on the right hand side.
And if you right click you
can copy the link address.
So now that's the link address just to the
CSV file that we might want to download
with these camera positions.
And so, then what we do is we
take that link that we copied and
we put it right here.
We save it into a variable
called fileUrl just like this.
And then we pass a download file that file
url that we collected off the website.
And we say, we'd like to put
it in this data directory and
we'd like to call it cameras.csv.
We're using .csv because that's
the extension that's used for
comma separated files.
And the method that we're
going to use is curl.
This is necessary because
this website is an https,
secure website, and so
if you're doing this from a Mac,
you need to specify the method
is curl in order for it to work.
If you're working from Windows,
I don't think that you need to set
the method to be curl, the default
method will work all right for you.
So then if you list the files
in this data directory, so
this is sort of like the LS command that
we saw in the command line interface.
You see that we now have one file in that
directory, and it's the cameras.csv file.
An important component of downloading
files from the internet is that those
files might change.
So for example, if they update
the cameras, there might be a new
set of cameras and the data that
we're analyzing might be different.
So you want to keep track of the date
that you downloaded the data,
and you can do that
with the date function.
So you just assign to
dateDownloaded the command date and
that will give you the date that
those data were downloaded.
So with those data having been downloaded,
and knowing the date, you can go back and
see if you can find the right version of
the file if you have trouble later on.
So, if the url starts with http,
you should be okay.
Even if the url starts with https
on Windows you should be okay.
On a Mac you need to set the method
= "curl" if you have https.
One thing to keep in mind is
that this actually going out and
downloading the file from the Internet,
so depending on the size of the file and
your internet connection,
this could end up taking a while.
So sometimes what you may want to do
is have the instruction list, but
when you actually run new versions
of the processing software,
you don't rerun the file download every
single time if it's a really big file.
And remember to record when the file was
downloaded so that you can go back and
check the version of the file later
when you're trying to figure things out.
So that's how you download
a file from the internet in r.